SECTION
SUNRISE COMPANY        1
EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK  




SUNRISE COMPANY &
YOU


















































  

September 2014
Page


About Sunrise Company        1
Introduction        3
At-Will Employment        4
Your Classification        4
Exempt Employees        4
Non-Exempt Employees        4
Full - Time Employees        5
Part -Time Employees        5
On-Call Employees        5
Temporary Employees        5
Other Classifications        5
Your Accountability and Responsibility        5
Grooming and Dress Standards        5
Working Hours        6
Meal Periods        6
Rest Periods        7
Schedules        7
On-Call Time        7
Paychecks        8
Deductions from Wages        8
Tip Policy        8
Time Reports/Time Cards        9
Change of Employee Information        9
Attendance        10
Punctuality        10
Personal and Family Relationships        10
Employee Conduct        11
Member and Guest Relations        11
Leaving Property during Work Hours        12
Returning To the Property after Work        12
Personal Phone Calls/Messages        12
Restroom Use        12
Smoking        13
Transportation        13
Rideshare        13
Visitors        13
Gate Passes and Parking        13
Recreational, Social Or Athletic Disclaimer Notice        13
Resignation        13
Exit Interviews        14
Return of Company Property        14




1300936.3
10220-00113
________________


September 2014
i
10220-00113/2240369.3
(continued)
Page


Employee References        14
Bulletin Boards        14
Personnel Files        15
Performance Reviews        15
Promotions and Transfers        15
Solicitation        15
Spa and Fitness Services        15
Discipline Procedure        16
Standards of Conduct        16
Searches        18
Monitoring and Surveillance        19














































































  

September 2014
ii


  





About Sunrise Company
More than 50 years ago, Sunrise Company began developing master-planned, golf-course communities in the Palm Springs, California desert, resort area. Today, Sunrise Company is one of the nation’s most respected residential and country club community developers.


Sunrise Company’s record of achievement includes the establishment of Indian Ridge, home of the Bob Hope Chrysler Classic, and co-developer of PGA West, the Western Home of American Golf, which hosted The Skins Game and The Grand Slam of Golf. In addition to its 13 resort communities, the Company has constructed over 15,000 homes, built two resort hotels and developed numerous apartment buildings, office buildings, shopping centers and commercial hotels. Sunrise Company is continually pursuing new opportunities in the country’s fastest growing markets.


In November of 1999, Sunrise Company received one of the highest industry accolades with the award of the National Housing Quality Silver Award for the year 2000 for Commitment to Quality for the Indian Ridge Country Club in Palm Desert.


Sunrise Company’s corporate culture, and its adherence to the “Twelve Steps to Success in the Community Development Business,” have been major factors in its continued dominance of one of the most competitive resort community markets in the United States.


The industry experience and longevity of service of the senior management, who average 15 years with the company, is one of Sunrise Company’s most valued assets. “The Prerequisites” are an important component of the Sunrise Company corporate culture, which has cultivated such an outstanding and loyal team.


William Bone founded Sunrise Company in 1963 and is Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. A nationally recognized expert in hotel and residential resort/recreation development, Mr. Bone has spoken throughout the country at numerous seminars and before groups interested in residential/country club/resort/recreation and hotel marketing and development. In 1992, Mr. Bone was inducted into the California Building Industry Association Hall of Fame.


Sunrise Company – Current Developments & Divisions
Royal Oaks Country Club located in Houston, Texas began construction in 1999. The 490 acre private community includes 849 homes and custom homesites surrounding an 18-hole Fred Couples Signature golf course. The private equity club includes a 48,000-square-foot Main Clubhouse plus an 11,600-square-foot Sports Club and Spa with extensive health and fitness amenities plus seven lighted tennis courts, three swimming pools and a pool side Grille.


Toscana Country Club is a private equity golf club and luxury residential community in Indian Wells, California. Construction at Toscana began in September of 2003. Upon completion, it will include 605 single-family detached homes and 47 custom home sites along with 550 equity golf and 175 equity sports club and spa memberships. The community features 18 hole Jack Nicklaus Signature Golf Courses and the Club Villa with an exceptional array of private club and spa amenities including Il Forno, Spa Bella Vita and the Sports and Tennis Club.


Sunrise Luxury Living specializes in the acquisition, development, construction and management of luxury multi-family residential properties in the Southwestern United States. They are currently building apartments in Houston and Scottsdale and are pursuing acquisition and development opportunities in high barrier-to-entry and high growth markets. Our team has over 75 years of collective experience developing and building luxury real-estate projects and is led by Jim Hinton who has over 35 years of experience in commercial real estate and has focused exclusively on multi-family assets for over 30 years.


Dancing Bear Aspen is a boutique 20-unit Private Residence Club with 3-bedroom, 3.5-bath residences available for fractional ownership. The Club features a state-of-the-art fitness center, private movie theatre, family game room, owners’ wine room and cellar and a private rooftop terrace. The residences are offered in 1/8 fractions and include membership in Timbers Collection.


Otay Ranch is a vibrant 5,300-acre planned community in San Diego County in California that combines the best of old-style neighborhoods, innovative community design, pedestrian parks, an extensive network of trails, paseos, and promenade streets with a unique Towne Center. Since opening in 1999, Otay Ranch has been San Diego County’s top selling planned community, quarter after quarter. As one of four select guest builders, Sunrise will build 1,000 homes and develop two large neighborhood shopping centers through the completion of Otay Ranch.


Sunrise Company – Legacy of Success
Sunrise Country Club, Rancho Mirage, California
746 homes, 18-hole Ted Robinson-designed golf course, 13-court tennis club and clubhouse.


Rancho Las Palmas Country Club, Rancho Mirage, California.
858 homes, 27-hole Ted Robinson-designed golf course, 25-court tennis club and separate tennis and golf clubhouses.


Marriott's Rancho Las Palmas Resort, Rancho Mirage, California 465 rooms, 20-acre office, restaurant and shopping plaza.


Monterey Country Club, Palm Desert, California.
1,206 homes, 27-hole Ted Robinson-designed golf course, 19-court tennis club and clubhouse and golf clubhouse.


The Lakes Country Club, Palm Desert, California.
902 homes, 27-hole Ted Robinson-designed golf course, 15-court tennis club and clubhouse and golf clubhouse.


Palm Valley Country Club, Palm Desert, California.
1,274 homes, 2 18-hole Ted Robinson-designed golf courses, 19-court tennis club, clubhouse, fitness center and spa


PGA West, La Quinta, California.
500 homes, four 18-hole championship golf courses designed by golfing legends Pete Dye, Jack Nicklaus and Arnold Palmer, private golf clubhouse, daily fee clubhouse and private tennis clubhouse.


Marriott’s Desert Springs Resort and Spa, Palm Desert, California
891 rooms, 10 restaurants and lounges, 18-hole Ted Robinson-designed golf course and 16-court tennis complex and spa.


Indian Ridge Country Club, Palm Desert, California.
1,068 homes, 36-holes of Arnold Palmer championship golf, sports club, spa and main clubhouse.


Red Rock Country Club, Las Vegas, Nevada.
1,116 homes, 36-holes of Arnold Palmer Signature golf, sports club, spa and main clubhouse.


Siena, Las Vegas, Nevada.
2,000 home active adult community, 18-hole championship golf course and golf clubhouse, community center, fitness center and spa


Part of Sunrise’s unique focus on service, customer satisfaction and profitability is its flexible organization, consisting of divisions specializing in community design and construction, club operations, new home sales and interior design.


The Sunrise corporate culture has been a major factor in its continued dominance of one of the most competitive resort community markets in the United States. At Sunrise Company, good people are recognized as its most valuable asset, and the key to its success. The “Prerequisites to a Successful Employment Relationship” (Section 2) is an important component of the Sunrise Company corporate culture, which has cultivated such an outstanding and loyal team.


Introduction
We’re happy you’ve become an employee and hope you thoroughly enjoy the challenges of your job. We have prepared this Employee Handbook to provide you with an overview of our policies and the benefits we provide, as well as to familiarize you with some of your responsibilities. Other than the at-will relationship discussed in the next section, this Handbook


is not intended to be a contract or to otherwise create any legally enforceable obligations. Nonetheless, all of our employees are expected to read and comply with this Handbook and become familiar with all of its provisions.


As you can imagine, it is not possible to anticipate every situation which may arise during your job or to provide answers to every possible question you may have. In addition, from time to time, circumstances will undoubtedly require that the policies, practices and benefits described in this Handbook be changed. Accordingly, other than the at-will policy set forth in  the following section, which cannot be changed except by a writing which is signed by the affected employee and the President or Chief Executive Officer, we must reserve the right to change, add to or eliminate any provision of the Employee Handbook as we deem necessary and appropriate. When provisions are added or removed, or existing policies or procedures are changed we will attempt to notify you of such changes by distributing new provisions or policies to you to be incorporated into the Handbook. When new policies are added, or existing policies or  procedures are changed, the most recent policies shall prevail and will govern any new actions taken.


This Employee Handbook supersedes any and all of our prior policies and procedures, whether oral or written, and applies to all employees of the Company.


At-Will Employment
Throughout the course of your employment, you are free to leave your employment at any time, for any reason. We reserve a similar right to end the employment relationship, or change an employee’s position, title, job responsibilities or compensation, at any time, with or without advance notice, for any reason or for no reason, and with or without cause. This is  called "employment at will" and no one other than the President or Chief Executive Officer has the authority to alter this arrangement, to enter into an agreement for employment for a specified period of time, or to make any agreement concerning the terms of your employment that is contrary to this policy. Furthermore, such an agreement must be in writing and must be signed  by both you and the President or Chief Executive Officer.


Your Classification
Exempt Employees
Exempt employees are employees whose duties and responsibilities are primarily of a managerial, professional and/or administrative nature and whose pay is such that they are exempt from state and federal law overtime laws. Such employees are not required to keep a time  record.


Non-Exempt Employees
Non-exempt employees are employees whose duties and responsibilities are primarily secretarial /clerical and technical such as construction labor, customer service, general repairs and club operations service employees. The Company is required to pay such employees overtime in accordance with state and federal laws and these employees are required to keep a time record of all hours worked for payroll purposes.


Full-Time Employees
Full-time employees are defined as those employees who are hired to work on a regular basis for a minimum of 30 or more hours per week. They are eligible for most employer- sponsored benefits.


Part-Time Employees
Part-time employees are defined as those employees who are hired to work on a regular basis for less than 30 hours per week. They are eligible for employer-sponsored benefits only as provided in this Employee Handbook.


On-Call Employees
On-call employees are defined as those employees who are not  scheduled regularly. They work only as needed and as called in. On-call employees are not eligible for most employer-sponsored benefits with the exception of the 401(k) plan.


Temporary Employees
These are employees who hold jobs of limited duration arising out of special projects, seasonal needs, abnormal workloads or emergencies. An employee cannot change from temporary status unless specifically informed of such a change in writing. Temporary employees are not eligible for any employer-sponsored benefits.


Other Classifications
Because of the type of businesses we operate, other classifications may occur, i.e., piece workers, commission salespeople and independent contractors.


Your Accountability and Responsibility
Grooming and Dress Standards
It is in everyone’s best interest for all employees of the Company to present a professional image to customers, homeowners, club members, clients and the public. Cleanliness is an essential part of providing this image. A neat, clean, businesslike appearance is a requirement for all jobs. In most instances, you may wear your hair the way you choose while working as long as it remains well trimmed, well groomed and businesslike in appearance. Your manager will inform you if business needs warrant additional requirements for your position.


All employees are expected to dress in a manner consistent with good hygiene, safety and good taste. The mode of dress varies in accordance with the type of work performed. For example, office personnel are required to wear clothes appropriate to a business office environment. At all times, employees are required to dress within the bounds of good taste (e.g., shorts, logo/souvenir type tee-shirts, tank tops, distressed (worn-out looking) or torn jeans or dungarees, and suggestive/provocative type clothing are prohibited.) Employees whose jobs require them to come in contact with customers, clients or the public are expected to wear apparel consistent with that worn by persons dealing with the public in the community in similar capacities. Furthermore, if you work with the public, all tattoos must be covered or not visible, and other than professionally worn ear piercings, no visible body piercings are allowed while on duty. Any employee who has a question about whether a particular item or outfit is appropriate


should discuss the matter with a supervisor before wearing it. Employees who are inappropriately dressed will be sent home and directed to return to work in proper attire. Such employees will not be compensated for the time away from work.


Employees for whom a uniform has been provided must wear the appropriate uniform. Alterations to uniforms are allowed only if prior approval has been obtained from a manager and the alteration is only for purposes of a better fit. Uniforms must be neat, clean and pressed at all times. Missing buttons should be replaced and tears or holes sewn before wearing the uniform. Hair nets or hats are part of the uniform in some areas. Nametags may be required as part of the uniform in some divisions of the Company.


This is an overview of the employer’s policy on hygiene, dress and grooming standards. Employees are requested to ask their department heads for more specific dress standards for their departments.


Working Hours
Our standard workweek begins at 12:01 a.m. Saturday and ends at 12 midnight the following Friday.


While we usually work a 40-hour week, the Company makes no guarantee of a 40-hour week. All employees should be aware that working beyond their regularly scheduled  hours might be required as a condition of employment. The Company will attempt to give advance notice of such circumstances, but you should know that this may not always be possible. Non- exempt employees may not work overtime unless prior approval of their supervisor has been obtained. Non-exempt employees who work unauthorized overtime may be subject to disciplinary action up to and including termination.


Working “off the clock” by non-exempt employees is never permitted. Likewise, refusal to work beyond the employee’s regularly scheduled hours when requested may also result in disciplinary action up to and including termination. Overtime will be paid to non-exempt employees according to state and federal laws.


Meal Periods
Absent extremely unusual and rare circumstances, all non-exempt employees working more than five hours a day are expected to take meal breaks during which they are relieved of all duties. The only exception to this is if the employee’s entire shift does not exceed six (6) hours, in which case the meal period may voluntarily be waived in writing by the employee and his or her supervisor. Meal breaks can be no less than 30 minutes, and are not compensated. The precise starting time for meal periods may vary depending upon workload. However, the meal period must begin within four hours and fifty-nine minutes after the employee begins work. If a non-exempt employee works in excess of ten hours (not including a meal period) in any one day, he or she is expected to take a second meal period lasting for at least 30 minutes. Because meal periods are unpaid, all non-exempt employees are responsible for recording when they leave for meal breaks and when they return from meal breaks. If, at any time, you believe you  are impeded or discouraged from taking your meal break, you must notify the Human Resources Department immediately.


Rest Periods
Non-exempt employees who work more than three and one-half hours a day are expected to take rest periods. If your workday is three and one-half to six hours long, you are entitled to a ten minute rest period. If your workday is more than six hours and up to ten hours long, you are entitled to two ten minute rest periods. If your workday is more than ten and up to 14 hours  long, you are entitled to three ten minute rest periods. In the unlikely event your workday exceeds 14 hours, you are entitled to four ten minute rest periods. Recording the time in and out is not required when taking these rest periods, but employees are responsible for taking their rest periods. While there is no specific time assigned for these breaks, as far as practicable, each rest period should be provided in the middle of each four-hour work period. Rest periods may not be tacked onto meal periods or used to compensate for late arrivals or early departures. When employees are not utilizing their rest period time, employees are expected to devote their full efforts to their job duties. If at any time you believe that you are impeded or discouraged from taking your rest period, you must notify the Human Resources Department immediately.


Schedules
For most employees, our workweek begins on Saturday for purposes of scheduling and pay. Your manager will inform you of your schedule and/or show you the location of your department bulletin board and where work schedules will be posted. In most cases, these schedules will be posted prior to the start of the workweek.


Your manager will try to honor your schedule requests. However, while you may have been hired to work a certain shift, due to business demands and other considerations, it may be necessary to change your present shift or work station. It is therefore important that you realize that you are hired with the understanding that you will be scheduled as and where needed and will be expected to work accordingly, under managerial direction. This schedule may change from week to week and therefore must be verified each week.


Your department manager is the only one authorized to make changes to a posted schedule. If you wish a change in the posted schedule, consult your manager.


Management reserves the sole right to schedule work hours without restrictions. It is your responsibility to know and follow your schedule.


On-Call Time
Non-exempt employees may sometimes be told to be available should the need arise for them to work. This is known as “on-call time”.  If a non-exempt employee is completely  relieved from duty and the time is long enough for the employee to use the time for his/her own purposes, on-call time hours are not considered time worked. Conversely, if a non-exempt employee is required to remain on-call on the employer’s premises or nearby so that the employee cannot use the time effectively for his/her own purposes, the time is compensable.


If a non-exempt employee is not required to remain on the employer’s premises but is required merely to leave word as to where he/she may be reached by phone, pager, mobile phone, etc., the employee is not actually working during on-call time and the time is not compensable.


The following factors are considered in determining whether a non-exempt employee’s on-call time is compensable:


* the degree to which the non-exempt employee is free to engage in personal activities;
* any excessive geographical limitations associated with the on-call time;
* any on-premises living requirement;
* the number of calls and whether the frequency is unduly restrictive;
* any fixed time limit for response that is restrictive;
* the ability of on-call employees to trade on-call responsibilities with other employees; and
* whether the employee actually engages in personal activities during on-call time.
The less restrictive the response time and the geographical restrictions, the more likely it is that the on-call time is not compensable. If non-exempt employees are able to engage in activities that they normally do while not on-call, it is likely that the time spent on-call is not compensable.


All time a non-exempt employee spends working or responding to a call is compensable. If the non-exempt employee is required to travel to the employer’s worksite or customer’s worksite, the travel time is compensable. The employee must be paid for his/her time spent driving to and from the worksite as well as any time spent at the worksite. If you have any questions regarding whether your on-call time is compensable, please contact Human Resources.


Paychecks
Currently, employees are paid bi-weekly (every other week). If paydays fall on a holiday or weekend you will be paid on the day before the holiday or weekend. Non-exempt employees will be compensated for all hours worked during a pay period. Please report any payroll discrepancies (straight hours or overtime hours) immediately to your supervisor.


Deductions from Wages
Certain deductions required by law will be deducted from each employee’s wages. These include federal income taxes, social security tax (FICA) and when applicable, any state required taxes. All legislated or court mandated deductions as well as voluntary employee authorized benefit deductions will also be subtracted from your paycheck. Each employee will receive a statement which itemizes, among other things, the gross pay, deductions and the net pay received.


Tip Policy
All employees who receive cash tips of $20 or more in a calendar month while working for the Company are required to report the total amount of tips received. Cash tips must be reported on Form 4070, Employee's Report of Tips to Employer, by the tenth of the following month and given to department managers to forward to payroll for processing. The amount of  the cash tips will be added to the employee’s taxable wages and the appropriate amount of social security, Medicare and income tax will be withheld on the following pay check.


Cash tips include tips received directly from members and guests, tips received indirectly under any tip-sharing arrangement with other employees, and charged tips (e.g., credit and debit card charges) that may be distributed to you.


In order to keep track of cash tips received, employees should record their tips daily on Form 4070A, Employee's Daily Record of Tips. The monthly total should then be reported on Form 4070, Employee's Report of Tips to Employer. Both forms are in IRS Publication 1244 (PDF), Employee's Daily Record of Tips and Report to Employer.


Employees are not required to report to their employer cash tips that are less than $20 in a calendar month, but they are required to report all tips as income on their tax returns.


Time Reports/Time Cards
Federal and state wage and hour laws require that accurate records be kept of each non- exempt employee’s hours worked. To comply with the law, all non-exempt employees are required to complete time cards indicating time worked and leave taken. In most instances, a time clock machine will be used. If for any reason an employee fails to clock in or out on the time clock, the employee must notify his supervisor immediately so that the error or omission can be corrected and initialed. In accordance with state and federal law, the employer rounds clock-in and out time to the nearest one-quarter hour.


The following rules must be observed regarding non-exempt employees’ use of time clocks and time cards:


* Employees should not work or clock in on the time clock more than seven minutes before or seven minutes after their shift. Exceptions are permissible only when an employee has received advance written approval by his supervisor to work overtime. Working off the clock is never permitted.


* Employees must use only their own assigned time card. Violators are subject to immediate dismissal.


* Employees must clock out and in for meal periods or when leaving the premises for personal reasons.


* An employee’s supervisor must authorize overtime before it is worked.
* The employee and his supervisor must initial any modifications or alterations to an employee’s time card or time sheet.


* Employees must sign their time cards or time report at the end of each pay period, provided they are completely correct.


Change of Employee Information
It is essential that you keep your supervisor and the Human Resources Department informed of any changes of important information. Your present address and phone number are essential for many purposes, including mailings from the employer to your home, and it is your


responsibility to inform the employer immediately of any changes. If your marital status or dependents change, you may have to change the number of exemptions claimed for income tax withholding purposes and to add or delete members of your family to the employer’s health insurance plan.


Attendance
Every employee plays an important role in the successful operation of the Company. When you are not here, someone else must do your job. Accordingly, it is your responsibility to your fellow employees, to our clients, customers and homeowners, and to the Company, to arrive at work on time and work productively until the end of the day. If you will be absent, it is your responsibility to notify your manager as far in advance as possible (usually at least two hours notice should be given) before your scheduled starting time. This procedure must be followed each day of an absence. Any failure to notify management of an expected absence may be considered an absence without notification and will be grounds for discipline, up to and including discharge. The Company may terminate an employee for any unexcused absence.


If an employee misses three or more consecutive days because of illness, a written notification from a physician describing the reason for the illness and absence may be required. This will be done before the employee is allowed to return to work to ensure that the employee’s health is adequate to perform work duties. The Company may require a doctor’s note, satisfactory to the Company, which releases the employee to return to work and to perform all of the usual job duties safely any time an employee is absent.


Punctuality
It is your responsibility to call your immediate manager, or whomever the manager has designated to accept employee calls, two hours before the scheduled starting time to inform the manager that you will be late. You must specify a time at which you may be expected to arrive for work. Chronic tardiness will not be tolerated.


Personal and Family Relationships
The Company desires to avoid problems that can potentially result from personal and family relationships between employees of the Company. Accordingly, this policy has been adopted in an effort to avoid such problems, which may include, but are not necessarily limited to: conflicts of interest; disruption in the workplace; creation of or contribution to a negative or unprofessional work environment; or concerns regarding supervision, safety, security or morale (collectively referred to in this policy as “Personal Relationship Problems”).


As used throughout this policy, the term “Relative” includes, but is not necessarily limited to, the following relationships, whether they are established by blood, marriage or otherwise: spouse, father, mother, son, daughter, sister, brother, grandparent, grandchild, aunt, uncle, cousin, step-parent, step-brother, step-sister, step-child, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law or daughter-in-law.


As used throughout this policy, the term “Spousal Equivalent” includes, but is not necessarily limited to, any relationship in which the affected employees occupy the same place  of residence or are otherwise involved in a close personal relationship (such as a dating


relationship or other similar romantic involvement) without respect to whether the employees are either the same or opposite sex.


Although the Company will analyze all situations individually and determine appropriate action to minimize Personal Relationship Problems, we have established the following guidelines:


1. No supervisor may hire another individual to work under his or her area of authority if that individual is a Relative or in a Spousal Equivalent relationship with the supervisor.


2. No employee may work within the same area of authority of or directly report to a Relative or Spousal Equivalent.


3. In the event that two employees become Relatives or Spousal Equivalents, and are thereby subject to the guidelines set forth above, they must immediately disclose this to the Human Resources Department at the corporate office. Failure to do so will result in disciplinary action up to and including immediate termination.  If, in the judgment of management, a Personal Relationship Problem may arise as a result of the situation, only one of the employees will be permitted to remain with the Company, unless, in management’s judgment, reasonable accommodations (which may include, but are not limited to, transfers, reassignments, or change in shifts) can be made to eliminate potential problems or conflicts. The decision as to which employee will remain will be made by the Company, based on business needs.


The Company reserves the right to determine that relationships which are not specifically covered by this policy may present Personal Relationship Problems. In the event of such determination, this policy will be applied.


Any exception to this policy must be authorized by the President.


Employee Conduct
The success of our business depends on our treatment of people. It is the responsibility of all managers and employees to treat our guests, clients, vendors and one another with respect and understanding. Therefore, while nothing herein changes the at-will nature of the employment relationship, any rudeness, gossiping, profanity, yelling, use of vulgar or obscene language, suggestive or sarcastic gestures, etc., will not be tolerated and may result in disciplinary action up to and including immediate termination.


Member and Guest Relations
The Company wishes to promote positive relations between its employees and its members/guests. It is therefore important that employees are professional and respectful toward members and guests at all times. Accordingly, this policy has been adopted in an effort to avoid problems that can potentially result from relationships between employees of the Company and members or guests, which may include, but are not necessarily limited to: conflicts of interest; disruption in the workplace; creation of or contribution to a negative or unprofessional work environment; or concerns regarding supervision, safety, security or morale. This policy applies  to all Company employees.


Because personal relationships between employees and members/guests can interfere with a professional environment, employees are prohibited from fraternizing or becoming personally involved with members/guests when, in the opinion of the Company, such personal relationships create a potential conflict of interest, cause disruption, create a negative or unprofessional work environment or present concerns regarding safety or morale. In any case where the Company determines, in its sole discretion, that a relationship between an employee and a member/guest presents an actual or potential problem, the Company may take whatever action it determines to be appropriate. Such actions may include, but are not necessarily limited to, transfers, reassignments, changing shifts, or possible termination.


Leaving Property during Work Hours
It is recognized that, at times, an employee must leave the property during working hours to conduct personal business. However, the manager is also responsible for the whereabouts of all employees in the department and for maintaining proper staffing at all times. Therefore,  when it is necessary to leave the property at any time during working hours, the employee must:


* Obtain permission from his or her manager before leaving the property.
* Clock out or sign out when leaving and back in when returning.
* Check back in with his or her manager at the time of return.




Returning To the Property after Work
At the conclusion of the shift, all employees are to leave the premises. Employees are not permitted to return to their work area after work. If you desire to use any of the Company facilities after hours or on your day off, you MUST receive prior permission from your manager.




Personal Phone Calls/Messages
Calls should be made either before or after your shift or on your meal or rest break. Employees having access to phones should, under no circumstances, make or charge a long distance call to the Company unless it is work related and approved by the employee’s supervisor.


Employees are not permitted to receive personal phone calls at work, except in the case of an emergency. If it is an emergency, the call will be routed to the workstation or a message will be taken.


Cell phones must not be used in work-related areas for non-business purposes.


Restroom Use
Employees must use the restroom designated by their department manager.


Smoking
For health and safety considerations, the Company discourages smoking. Smoking is prohibited in all locations on Company property except those specifically designated as smoking areas.


Transportation
Transportation to and from work is the responsibility of each employee. If you have someone bringing you to or picking you up from work, they must wait for you in areas designated by your manager.


Rideshare
We encourage employees to carpool. Interested individuals may contact their manager for more information. Employees are encouraged to contribute suggestions to help develop trip reduction plans.


Visitors
To ensure Sunrise Company’s security, and to reduce the potential liability for injury to outsiders, personal visitors are not permitted on Sunrise Company premises without permission from the employee’s supervisor. All personal visitors must register at the reception area and can only enter Sunrise Company facility after approval of the employee’s supervisor has been received.


No persons other than employees or authorized persons are allowed in areas of buildings other than areas designated as public access areas. This includes individuals providing transportation to employees.


Gate Passes and Parking
In certain positions, employees may be issued gate passes. These decals should  be affixed on the lower left side of the employee’s vehicle windshield. These allow you to enter  and exit your work site without having to stop at the guardhouse each time.


Upon termination from the Company or sale of the vehicle, the Company decal must be removed from the automobile and returned to the Human Resources Department. The decal  must be returned during the exit interview or before the sale of the vehicle.


Please observe the posted speed limit. All employees must park in designated parking areas. Please consult your manager for directions.


Recreational, Social or Athletic Disclaimer Notice
Your employer and its insurance carrier will not be liable for the payment of workers’ compensation benefits for any injury which arises out of your voluntary participation in any off- duty recreational, social, or athletic activity which is not part of your work-related duties.


Resignation
If you plan to leave the Company’s employ, we ask that you provide some type of notice prior to departure. Although this notice is not required, it is requested so that the Company will


have the opportunity to locate a replacement before you leave. You are free to resign at any  time, just as the Company is free to terminate your employment for any reason at any time.


Exit Interviews
All departing employees must go through a formal exit interview. Department managers and supervisors will coordinate this effort through the Human Resources Department. Individuals leaving the Company should return all uniforms, equipment, tools, and manuals, keys or any other Company issued items to the department prior to holding the exit interview. During the exit interview, employees should be prepared to return gate passes, photo identification cards and medical identification cards.


The exit interview is a formality that allows all employees leaving the Company, regardless of reason, to communicate their views on their work while with the Company. It is also an ideal time to answer or clarify any questions, concerns or problems, if any, prior to the departure of the employee. This meeting also provides the employee an opportunity to discuss issues concerning benefits and insurance.


Return of Company Property
As noted in the previous section, employees are expected to return all Company property in their possession or control immediately upon termination of employment for any reason. The Company may take additional action deemed necessary to protect or recover its property. Arrangements for clearing any outstanding debt with the Company and to receive final pay are also to be made at the time of termination.


Employee References
All oral and written job reference inquiries concerning former or current employees must be directed to the Human Resources Department. The Human Resources Department will respond to written requests that provide an authorized signature of the employee, former employee or applicant, and will provide only the following information: (1) dates of employment; (2) last position held; and (3) verification of final rate of pay. No other information will be provided. If an employee requests a personal and/or professional reference from his or her manager or supervisor, the reply must be the following: “It is this Company’s policy to provide the employee’s dates of employment and final position held. That information will be provided only through the Human Resources Department.” If a third party seeks additional information, the only authorized response is, “It is the company’s policy not to offer any additional information regarding current or former employees.” No employee is authorized to provide any oral or written, formal or informal, on-the-record or off-the-record, information or opinion concerning any present or former employee’s work qualifications or abilities. If a job reference or other information is provided in violation of this policy, the responding individual will be acting outside of the course and scope of his or her authority and may be personally responsible for any resulting liability. Any requests for information pursuant to a subpoena must be forwarded to corporate the Human Resources Department immediately.


Bulletin Boards
Communication among employees at all levels is essential in an organization as large as our Company. It is in your best interest to watch employee bulletin boards for information and


announcements. You should first ask your supervisor for permission should you wish to post a notice.


Personnel Files
Each employee has a personnel file that is kept in the Human Resources Department. This file is a record of your employment with the Company. It contains personnel action forms, evaluations, memos and records concerning your work history. Personnel files may be inspected by written request to the Human Resources Department, which request shall be granted within thirty (30) days of receipt of the request. No documents may be removed from the files. However, employees may request copies of documents maintained in their personnel file.


Performance Reviews
An attempt to review each employee’s job performance with the employee will be made by his immediate supervisor annually. If the employee receives a written evaluation, the original form will be placed in the employee’s personnel file. Some divisions of the Company schedule additional reviews.


This method will provide each employee with an opportunity to note major accomplishments and progress as well as performance concerns and areas for improvement.


Promotions and Transfers
The Company encourages employees to apply for promotions to positions for which they are qualified. Promotions and transfers will be based on the ability, qualifications and potential of the candidates for the positions.


Employees who are interested in transferring to another position should contact their immediate manager and thereafter the Human Resources Department provided they have completed six months of employment.


All promotions and transfers are at the sole discretion of management.


Solicitation
Solicitation of employees during working time by, or on behalf of, an individual, organization, club or society is prohibited. The distribution of any literature, pamphlets or other material in a Company work area is likewise restricted. This means that employees may not solicit while they are engaged in the performance of work tasks, nor may any employees be solicited while working.


Spa and Fitness Services
The Company desires to avoid problems that can potentially result from relationships between employees of the Company and members or guests. Accordingly, this policy has been adopted in an effort to avoid such problems, which may include, but are not limited to: conflicts of interest; disruption in the workplace; creation of or contribution to a negative or unprofessional work environment; or concerns regarding supervision, safety, security or morale.


All spa or fitness services that the Company provides to the members/guests of the club must be performed at the sports or fitness center. If a member requests that the employee provide


services at the member/guest’s home, office, etc., the employee must forward the request to the spa/fitness director to address with the member. No services are to be provided at a member/guest’s home without prior approval from the spa/fitness director.


In some instances, an employee may have previously provided spa/fitness services to a member/guest prior to the member/guest visiting our facility, or prior to the employee’s employment with the Company. Under these circumstances, before the employee begins working at the spa/fitness center, or once the member/guest first visits the facility, the employee must notify the spa/fitness director of this prior service relationship before continuing to provide any services to the member/guest at their home, office, etc.


Failure to notify the spa/fitness director of circumstances that are in conflict with this policy will be considered violation of company policy as shown in the Conflict of Interest Policy in Section 2 of the Employee Handbook, and may subject you to discipline up to and including immediate termination.


Discipline Procedure
In order for Sunrise Company to maintain a desirable level of employee conduct and productivity, our policies will be enforced. Should an employee violate a rule or policy, including those rules and regulations set by each department, disciplinary action may be necessary. As explained elsewhere in this Employee Handbook, employment is at the mutual consent of the employee and the employer, and may be terminated at any time, at will, by either the employee or the employer. Nonetheless, for some offenses of rules, regulations and incidents of poor performance, where the Company determines it to be appropriate in the exercise of its discretion, it may attempt to give an employee a prior oral or written warning and an opportunity to attempt to improve or correct the problem before discharge. However, if in management’s  sole discretion, a violation warrants immediate dismissal, or other discipline (for example, suspension), such action will be taken.


Standards of Conduct
Rules outlining acceptable conduct of employees are necessary for the orderly operation of any business and for the benefit and protection of the rights and safety of all employees. To promote understanding of what is considered unacceptable conduct and to encourage consistent action by the Company in the event of violations, examples of impermissible conduct are identified below. It is impossible to provide an exhaustive list of types of prohibited conduct.  The following list, therefore, contains only some examples of prohibited conduct.


* Entering Company property or working at a job site while under the influence of, or having in your possession, any intoxicating beverage or illegal drug. This includes consumption, sale or transfer of such substances during break times, meal periods, or during work time in Company vehicles or in personal vehicles on Company business.


* Stealing or attempting to steal Company property or the property of other employees or customers.


* Bringing firearms or weapons of any kind onto Company property or job site.


* Fighting, scuffling or indulging in horseplay.
* Removing Company property without written approval.
* Intentionally destroying or damaging Company property or the property of other employees or tampering with any safety equipment.


* Refusing a direct order from your supervisor (insubordination).
* Falsifying employment application, health questionnaire or other documents required by the Company.


* Concealing mistakes.
* Failing to observe safety rules.
* Excessive tardiness or absenteeism.
* Soliciting, collecting funds, selling or attempting to sell any merchandise to other employees on Company premises during work time at workstations.


* Distributing any non-work related material of any kind during work time at workstations.


* Leaving the premises without permission.
* Threatening,        intimidating,        coercing,        harassing        or        interfering        with        fellow employees or indulging in harmful gossip.


* Violating the Company’s policy against harassment and discrimination.
* Performing activities other than Company work during working hours.
* Conviction of a civil or criminal violation requiring an absence from work of more than one workday.


* Using Company stationery and/or Company supplies or materials for personal use.


* Smoking in restricted areas.
* Failing to report immediately to the supervisor any injury, no matter how slight.
* Operating a Company vehicle or a personal vehicle on Company business without a valid driver’s license, valid registration or insurance required by law.


   * Falsifying time records.


   * Loafing or sleeping on the job.
   * Disposing of refuse or litter in other than the containers provided for that purpose.


   * Gambling on Company property.
   * Using        profane,        abusive,        or        threatening        language        towards        fellow employees, supervisors, or customers.


   * Engaging in immoral conduct or indecency.
   * Failing to report malfunction of equipment to your supervisor.
   * Driving faster than the designated speed limit in the Company parking lot, country clubs, or job sites.


   * Any other serious misconduct.
   * Any violation of any policy or procedure of the Company.
The above list is intended only as a guideline and not as an exclusive list of prohibited conduct. The Company may add work or safety rules at any time. Furthermore, all employees  are employed on an at-will basis and accordingly, there need be no specific reason to discharge any employee.


Searches
At times, Sunrise Company may need to access materials in an employee’s desk or working area, or may need to review data stored in the computer system. Working areas are not private. Similarly, the communications system (voice mail, electronic mail, telephone system, etc.) is not secure or private.


Any materials or personal information employees need to keep private should not be brought onto Company premises. If employees need to have a private conversation, there are  pay telephones located in designated areas or they will need to have such conversations away from Company premises. Employees are requested to have all personal mail delivered to their home. All mail addressed to the Company address, regardless, of whom it is sent to, will be considered business related. This means that it may be opened and  read and the addressee  cannot expect any confidentiality of the contents.


The Company may search its property, vehicles, structures, and furniture and equipment, including but not limited to offices, desks, lockers, file cabinets and computers, at any time and for any reason. All employees therefore should refrain from storing on or in Company-owned property any personal information and communications (including personal correspondence) they wish to protect from inspection by Company officials.


By accepting employment and/or continued employment, each employee of the Company is deemed to have consented to unannounced searches of his/her work area. If the Company announces a request for a search and the employee refuses to allow such a search, it will result in the immediate discharge of the employee.


For security reasons, employees should not bring personal belongings into the work place. This includes backpacks, large or oversized purses, packages and or utility bags, etc. If you must bring any such personal belongings to work, you are required to leave them in employee locker areas.


Any personal property, including but not limited to packages, purses, lunch boxes, vehicles and backpacks of an employee brought onto company premises may be inspected at any time, at the sole and exclusive discretion of the Company.


In order to avoid search of personal property, please refrain from bringing personal property to work. Any employee observed taking any Company property, including, without limitation, Company food or equipment, from the company or club property, will be subject to disciplinary action including immediate termination. While this type of search will only be conducted with the employee’s knowledge and consent, an employee’s refusal to permit such a search of personal items will result in the immediate discharge of the employee.


Monitoring and Surveillance
Video monitoring is used by the Company to identify safety concerns, maintain quality control, detect theft, and deter acts of harassment, workplace violence and other misconduct.


The Company has installed, and may supplement in the future, video cameras that monitor non-private areas of Company property. Please be aware that your activities in all non- private areas may be viewed at any time, without further notice, by authorized personnel. Cameras have not been, and will not be, installed in restroom stalls, locker changing rooms, or any other area designated for changing clothes.